== README

Getting Started: 

	To seed services, run:
		rake db:seed:services

	To import restaurants from Open Table, run:
		rake db:import:restaurants

	Put facebook key and secret in instagator/.env 


How Event Creation Works

	Creating an Opentable Event

		Step 1: Filling out the Info
			Controller Action: users#dashboard
			View Code: events/_new.html.erb
			What Happens in backend: nothing

		Step 2: Submiting Event Info
			Controller Action: events#create
			View Code: none
			What Happens: An event is created with the submitted params,
			1 poll is created for the current user. The poll belongs to the event.

		Step 3: Choosing Restaurants Choices
			Controller Action: services#opentable
			View Code: services/opentable.html.erb
			What happens: Restaurants are retrieved

		Step 4: Submitting Restauraunt Choices
			Controller Action: choices#create
			View Code: none
			What Happens: Data form the selected restaurants are extracted and turned into Active Record Choices. choice#value is the restaurant name, choice#service_id is the opentable id, choice#add_info is the restaurant address and so forth

		Step 5: Review Event
			Controller Action: events#show
			View Code: events/show.html.erb
			What Happens: Event's activated status attribute is now changed to 'activated' so it can show up on the dashboard. User can now take poll or go back to dashboard

	Creating a Simple/Anything Goes Event

		Step 1: Filling out the Info
			Controller Action: simple/events#new
			View Code: simple/events/_new.html.erb
			What Happens: nothing

		Step 2: Submiting Event Info
			Controller Action: simple/events#create
			View Code: none
			What Happens: An event along with its choices is created with the submitted params.
			Choices are also assigned a question value and a choice_type value depending on what was filled out in the form. choice_type is used to distinguish between an opentable choice and a simple/anything goes choice. 
	
How Voting Works
	
	Voting on an Opentable Event

		Step 1: Upvote/Downvoting Choices
			Controller Action: choices#index
			View Code: choices/index
			What Happens: Each click on upvote and downvote modifies the 'yes' boolean attribute on the choice. The choice's new yes_count is then displayed via ajax.

		Step 2: Clicking Submit
			Controller Action: choices#decide_vote
			View Code: none
			What Happens: All votes for the choice's event are tallied up. If the choice with the highest number of 'yes' votes has exceeded the event's 'threshold' attribute. An api call is made to the opentable bot to book the reservation This is done in opentable#reserve

	Voting on a Simple/Anything Goes Event

		Step 1: Clicking on choices
			Controller Action: choices#index
			View Code: choices/index
			What Happens: This time, clicking on choices does not make ajax calls to the backend. Clicking on choices simply toggles the html classes to make them appear selected. Votes are not saved until user hit's submit.

		Step 2: Clicking Submit
			Controller Action: polls#vote
			View Code: none
			What Happens: All selected choices for the poll are submitted at once and updated. No bot action occurs. 

How the Opentable Bot Interaction Works

	When a poll's choice's 'yes_count' becomes equal to it's parent event's 'threshold' for the first time, it triggers an api call to the Opentable bot hosted on another web app. The bot uses the choice and the event's info to book a reservation within the time range specified by the instagator when they first created the event. 

	If successful, the event's 'current_choice' attribute is updated with the selected choice's 'value' attribute, and the instagator is emailed by Opentable.com. If not successful, the event's 'processing_choice' attribute is updated with the selected choice's 'value' attribute, and the instagator is emailed a url by which he can make the reservation manually. A separate email is sent out to site staff containing the necessary information to make the reservation manually on behalf of the instagator. 


Coffeescript
	
	I've named coffeescript files according to the the controller action they are related to.

	simple/events_new.js.coffee is particularly large and in need of refactoring. Here's a basic explanation of what's going on to help with any refactoring and changes that might need to be implemented in the future:

		The simple events form creates choices using a datepicker and a text choice picker.

		
		The first thing that might not be obvious is that the datepicker is actually two datepickers for the purpose of displaying two months. In order for this to function properly, the datepickers needed to be synced up. This means navigating the month on one datepicker, needs to shift the other as well. Also, picking a date on one should pick the date on the other as well. This was done be creating callback functions for the changeMonth and changeDay events on the datepicker. 

		The next thing is that the all questions in the form share a single datepicker and text choice picker div. They are refreshed after creating a question. And when a user clicks in to edit a question, the data is read from hidden input fields in each '.question-info-container' div to populate the text/date choice picker. This gives off the effect that each question has it's own choice picker when it's actually just two that are moving around.

















